how Google wants you to create meta
descriptions have you ever done a search
on Google and notice for each result
there's a title and a description that
description is called a meta description
usually a website creates one for each
and every single page on the website but
sometimes they don't and search engines
can use yours if you provide one or they
can come up with their own for each of
your web pages if you don't provide one
so what makes an ideal meta description
well let's see what Google has to say as
you can see here Google gives quite a
bit of feedback first they don't want
you to just list keywords in your meta
description here's an example of what
Google doesn't like as you can see
they're just listing tons and tons of
different keywords that's really not
what they like second Google doesn't
want you to use the same meta
description on each page such as this
one if you use this description on each
and every single page it doesn't really
help Google know how one page is
different than another
third they don't want you to just
summarize a page here's a summary
example that Google provided and the
issue is is if you just use a summary it
doesn't really provide much value they
can figure that out on their own you got
to make it more compelling fourth don't
make your meta description too short and
here's an example of a short meta
description it's so short that people
really aren't going to know what they're
going to get when they click on your
listing and if they don't know what
they're going to get you think they're
going to click well some may but a lot
won't so if you follow Google's rules
you'll create amazing meta description
right well it helps you but it doesn't
really give you enough information to
separate yourself from the crowd in
other words Google's giving great tips
but there's nothing amazing there
that'll teach you how to win and I don't
blame them their job isn't to teach you
how to win their job is to teach you how
to create the best user experience and
you want to do that but at the same time
you want to win now here's some data
that we have on what creates amazing
meta description keep in mind with our
tool Uber says we track over 900 million
domains and we're looking at things like
click-through rates and rankings so we
see patterns so this data here is from
those patterns and when I break down
this data you'll notice that the
percentage gains that you get from
implementing one or two or three of
these tactics isn't that much but you if
you implement a lot of them all those
small percentages will add up and that's
enough for you to win so let's dive into
the data you can get roughly a 3.4
percent higher click-through rate for
meta description tags that are roughly
119 characters to 135 characters we
found that descriptions are too long or
Too Short don't get as many clicks and
you can get up to a 5.7 increase in
click-throughs when the exact query that
someone is searching for is also in your
meta description makes sense right
someone's searches for something they
see it within your title their
description as well even your url it all
helps
power words increase click-throughs by
roughly 2.18 when you add them to the
meta description a great example of a
power is effortless such as check out
these seven effortless ways to boost
your rankings if you implement at least
three of them you should see quick
results
hopefully that helps you use power words
and implement it into your meta
descriptions
you can also get roughly a two to a
three percent higher click-through rate
for meta descriptions that contain
emotions versus ones that don't have
emotions
and the simplest one if you add a meta
description versus not having one at all
and keep in mind if you don't have one
search engines can just pull it from
your site or make up their own but what
we found is websites that have a meta
description no matter what it is what it
says how short or how long it is or
whether it has a keyword or not they get
roughly a 5.8 percent higher
click-through rate versus ones that
don't even have meta descriptions so
make sure you come up with a meta
description for each and every single
page
as I mentioned I know the percentages
aren't that big but every little bit
adds up the slightest difference could
mean a few extra spots in your rankings
now we have tons of data on this kind of
stuff not just for meta descriptions but
title tags URLs even on-page SEO link
building if you just want my team to
take all the data we have and just
fine-tune your website and just get you
the results for you check out my Ad
Agency NP digital if you have any
questions about meta descriptions or any
meta tags or any SEO you know questions
leave a comment below I'm here to help
you out I'll do my best to answer it if
you enjoy the video like it share it
tell a few about it thank you for your
time